DO NOT TRANSLATE OR LOCALIZE
***************************************************************************
%%The following software may be included in this product:
Rome
Use of any of this software is governed by the terms of the license below:
Licenses

The Apache Software Foundation uses various licenses to distribute software and
documentation, to accept regular contributions from individuals and
corporations, and to accept larger grants of existing software products. We are
also in the process of updating the Apache licenses to reflect changes in the
community regarding patents and contributing.

These licenses help us achieve our goal of providing reliable and long-lived
software products through collaborative open source software development. In all
cases, contributors retain full rights to use their original contributions for
any other purpose outside of Apache while providing the ASF and its projects the
right to distribute and build upon their work within Apache.
Licensing of Distributions

All software produced by The Apache Software Foundation or any of its projects
or subjects is licensed according to the terms of the documents listed below.
Apache License, Version 2.0 (current)

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 (TXT or HTML)

The 2.0 version of the Apache License was approved by the ASF in 2004. The goals
of this license revision have been to reduce the number of frequently asked
questions, to allow the license to be reusable without modification by any
project (including non-ASF projects), to allow the license to be included by
reference instead of listed in every file, to clarify the license on submission
of contributions, to require a patent license on contributions that necessarily
infringe the contributor's own patents, and to move comments regarding Apache
and other inherited attribution notices to a location outside the license terms
(the NOTICE file).

The result is a license that is supposed to be compatible with other open source
licenses, while remaining true to the original goals of the Apache Group and
supportive of collaborative development across both nonprofit and commercial
organizations. The Apache Software Foundation is still trying to determine if
this version of the Apache License is compatible with the GPL.

All packages produced by the ASF are implicitly licensed under the Apache
License, Version 2.0, unless otherwise explicitly stated. More developer
documentation on how to apply the Apache License to your work can be found in
Applying the Apache License, Version 2.0.

See the Licence FAQ.
Apache License, Version 1.1 (historic)

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-1.1

The 1.1 version of the Apache License was approved by the ASF in 2000. The
primary change from the 1.0 license is in the 'advertising clause' (section 3 of
the 1.0 license); derived products are no longer required to include attribution
in their advertising materials, only in their documentation.

Individual packages licensed under the 1.1 version may have used different
wording due to varying requirements for attribution or mark identification, but
the binding terms were all the same.
Apache License, Version 1.0 (historic)

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-1.0

This is the original Apache License which applies only to older versions of
Apache packages (such as version 1.2 of the Web server).
Contributor License Agreements

The ASF desires that all contributors of ideas, code, or documentation to the
Apache projects complete, sign, and submit (via snailmail or fax) an Individual
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) [PDF form]. The purpose of this agreement is
to clearly define the terms under which intellectual property has been
contributed to the ASF and thereby allow us to defend the project should there
be a legal dispute regarding the software at some future time. A signed CLA is
required to be on file before an individual is given commit rights to an ASF
project.

For a corporation that has assigned employees to work on an Apache project, a
Corporate CLA (CCLA) is available for contributing intellectual property via the
corporation, that may have been assigned as part of an employment agreement.
Note that a Corporate CLA does not remove the need for every developer to sign
their own CLA as an individual, to cover any of their contributions which are
not owned by the corporation signing the CCLA.

Note: If you choose to send this document via fax, rather than via traditional
postal mail, then be absolutely sure that you have sent it correctly. Faxes are
often received back-to-front, blank, or totally illegible.
Software Grants

When an individual or corporation decides to donate a body of existing software
or documentation to one of the Apache projects, they need to execute a formal
Software Grant agreement with the ASF. Typically, this is done after negotiating
approval with the ASF Incubator or one of the PMCs, since the ASF will not
accept software unless there is a viable community available to support a
collaborative project.
        
Foundation
# FAQ
# Licenses
# News
# Public Records
# Donations
# Thanks
# Contact
Foundation Projects
# Conferences
# Infrastructure
# JCP
How it works
# Introduction
# Meritocracy
# Structure
# Roles
# Collaboration
# Infrastructure
# Incubator
# Other entities
# Glossary
# Voting
Get Involved
# Mailing Lists
# Version Control
# Developer Info
Download
# from a mirror
Search apache.org
***************************************************************************
%%The following software may be included in this product:
JDOM
Use of any of this software is governed by the terms of the license below:
/*-- 

 $Id: LICENSE.txt,v 1.11 2004/02/06 09:32:57 jhunter Exp $

 Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Jason Hunter & Brett McLaughlin.
 All rights reserved.
 
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:
 
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
 
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions, and the disclaimer that follows 
    these conditions in the documentation and/or other materials 
    provided with the distribution.

 3. The name "JDOM" must not be used to endorse or promote products
    derived from this software without prior written permission.  For
    written permission, please contact .
 
 4. Products derived from this software may not be called "JDOM", nor
    may "JDOM" appear in their name, without prior written permission
    from the JDOM Project Management .
 
 In addition, we request (but do not require) that you include in the 
 end-user documentation provided with the redistribution and/or in the 
 software itself an acknowledgement equivalent to the following:
     "This product includes software developed by the
      JDOM Project (http://www.jdom.org/)."
 Alternatively, the acknowledgment may be graphical using the logos 
 available at http://www.jdom.org/images/logos.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
 WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE JDOM AUTHORS OR THE PROJECT
 CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
 USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
 ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
 OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
 OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 SUCH DAMAGE.

 This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many 
 individuals on behalf of the JDOM Project and was originally 
 created by Jason Hunter  and
 Brett McLaughlin .  For more information
 on the JDOM Project, please see . 

 */
Additional License(s)
$Id: LICENSE.txt,v 1.11 2004/02/06 09:32:57 jhunter Exp $

 Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Jason Hunter & Brett McLaughlin.
 All rights reserved.
 
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:
 
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
 
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions, and the disclaimer that follows 
    these conditions in the documentation and/or other materials 
    provided with the distribution.

 3. The name "JDOM" must not be used to endorse or promote products
    derived from this software without prior written permission.  For
    written permission, please contact .
 
 4. Products derived from this software may not be called "JDOM", nor
    may "JDOM" appear in their name, without prior written permission
    from the JDOM Project Management .
 
 In addition, we request (but do not require) that you include in the 
 end-user documentation provided with the redistribution and/or in the 
 software itself an acknowledgement equivalent to the following:
     "This product includes software developed by the
      JDOM Project (http://www.jdom.org/)."
 Alternatively, the acknowledgment may be graphical using the logos 
 available at http://www.jdom.org/images/logos.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
 WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE JDOM AUTHORS OR THE PROJECT
 CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
 USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
 ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
 OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
 OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 SUCH DAMAGE.

 This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many 
 individuals on behalf of the JDOM Project and was originally 
 created by Jason Hunter  and
 Brett McLaughlin .  For more information
 on the JDOM Project, please see .
***************************************************************************
%%The following software may be included in this product:
Stax API (only)
Use of any of this software is governed by the terms of the license below:
Streaming API for XML (JSR-173) Specification
Reference Implementation
License Agreement

READ THE TERMS OF THIS (THE "AGREEMENT") CAREFULLY BEFORE VIEWING OR USING THE
SOFTWARE LICENS
ED HEREUNDER.  BY VIEWING OR USING THE SOFTWARE, YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS
AGREEMENT. IF
YOU ARE ACCESSING THE SOFTWARE ELECTRONICALLY, INDICATE YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE
TERMS BY SELE
CTING THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO
ALL THESE TERMS
, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED SOFTWARE TO ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTOR, DEFINED HEREIN.

1.0  DEFINITIONS.

1.1. "BEA" means BEA Systems, Inc., the licensor of the Original Code.

1.2. "Contributor" means BEA and each entity that creates or contributes to the
creation of Mo
difications.

1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the combination
of the Origina
l Code and Modifications, in each case including portions thereof and
corresponding documentat
ion released with the source code.

1.4. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source Code.

1.5. "FCS" means first commercial shipment of a product.

1.6. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the substance or
structure of eith
er the Original Code or any previous Modifications. When Covered Code is
released as a series
of files, a Modification is:

(a)  Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original
Code or previ
ous Modifications.

(b)  Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or previous
Modifications.

1.7. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code Reference
Implementation.

1.8. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired,
including wit
hout limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent for which
the grantor ha
s the right to grant a license.

1.9.  "Reference Implementation" means the prototype or "proof of concept"
implementation of
the Specification developed and made available for license by or on behalf of BEA.

1.10. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for making
modifications to i
t, including all modules it contains, plus any associated documentation,
interface definition
files, scripts used to control compilation and installation of an Executable, or
source code d
ifferential comparisons against either the Original Code or another well known,
available Cove
red Code of the Contributor's choice.

1.11.  "Specification" means the written specification for the Streaming API for
XML , Java te
chnology developed pursuant to the Java Community Process.
1.12. "Technology Compatibility Kit" or "TCK" means the documentation, testing
tools and test
suites associated with the Specification as may be revised by BEA from time to
time, that is p
rovided so that an implementer of the Specification may determine if its
implementation is co
mpliant with the Specification.

1.13. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights
under, and com
plying with all of the terms of, this Agreement or a future version of this
Agreement issued u
nder Section 6.1. For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls,
is controlled
by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of this definition,
"control" means (a)
the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such
entity, whether by
 contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the
outstanding s
hares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2.0  SOURCE CODE LICENSE.

2.1. Copyright Grant.  Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor
hereby grants
You a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce,
prepare derivativ
e works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the
Covered Code of
such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in Source Code and
Executable form.

2.2.  Patent Grant.  Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor
hereby grants Yo
u a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under the Patent
Claims to make, use
, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Covered Code prepared
and provided by
 such Contributor, if any, in Source Code and Executable form. This patent
license shall apply
 to the Covered Code if, at the time a Modification is added by the Contributor,
such addition
 of the Modification causes such combination to be covered by the Patent Claims.
The patent li
cense shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Modification.

2.3.  Conditions to Grants.  You understand that although each Contributor
grants the licenses
 to the Covered Code prepared by it, no assurances are provided by any
Contributor that the Co
vered Code does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of
any other ent
ity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to You for claims brought by any
other entity ba
sed on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition
to exercising
 the rights and licenses granted hereunder, You hereby assume sole
responsibility to secure an
y other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third
party patent lice
nse is required to allow You to distribute Covered Code, it is Your
responsibility to acquire
that license before distributing such code.

2.4.  Contributors' Representation.  Each Contributor represents that to its
knowledge it has
sufficient copyright rights in the Covered Code it provides , if any, to grant
the copyright l
icense set forth in this Agreement.

3.0  DISTRIBUION RESTRICTIONS.

3.1. Application of Agreement.

The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are governed by
the terms of thi
s Agreement, including without limitation Section 2.0. The Source Code version
of Covered Code
 may be distributed only under the terms of this Agreement or a future version
of this Agreeme
nt released under Section 6.1, and You must include a copy of this Agreement
with every copy o
f the Source Code You distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any
Source Code ver
sion that alters or restricts the applicable version of this Agreement or the
recipients' righ
ts hereunder. However, You may include an additional document offering the
additional rights d
escribed in Section 3.3.

3.2. Description of Modifications.

You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a file
documenting the chan
ges You made to create that Covered Code and the date of any change. You must
include a promin
ent statement that the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from
Original Code pro
vided by BEA and including the name of BEA in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in
any notice in an
 Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the origin or
ownership of
the Covered Code.

***************************************************************************
%%The following software may be included in this product:
Jettison
Use of any of this software is governed by the terms of the license below:
Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright
owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities
that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity.
For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including
but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration
files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or
translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code,
generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made
available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included
in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that
is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions,
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an
original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works
shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by
name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version
of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works
thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work
by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit
on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition,
"submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and
issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for
the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication
that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright
owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently
incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or
Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,
each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive,
no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent
license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise
transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims
licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work
to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work
constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date
such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in
Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

   1. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy
of this License; and

   2. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that
You changed the files; and

   3. You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the
Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part
of the Derivative Works; and

   4. If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution,
then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of
the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those
notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the
Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along
with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of
the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that
You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work,
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as
modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide
additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or
distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole,
provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies
with the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any
additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall
supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have
executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names,
trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required
for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties
or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in
tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in
writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character
arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage,
computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such
damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or
Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for,
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to
indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred
by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any
such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS


